# wireless_iot_dl_image_compression
# Title: Efficient IoT Image Data Transmission Through Machine Learning Enabled Image Compression
## Abstract
Image compression is a key tool for Internet of Things devices that acquire image data, as these devices often need to relay the data they acquire to a centralized database or processing center. It is often more economical to have these devices send their information over a shared wireless network rather than attaching each device to a wired connection. To make the transfer of this image data more bandwidth efficient, we can perform image compression on the transmission side of the network, transmit a compressed version of the image data, and decompress on the receiver side. With the advent of deep learning techniques, comes an entirely new assortment of image compression techniques, which can often augment and improve upon traditional compression approaches. In this study, we examine and test two radically different philosophies for wireless transmission image compression. One technique uses an architecture known as an autoencoder to perform both data compression and decompression. The other approach uses traditional JPEG image compression with greater compression than is typically considered acceptable, introducing compression artifacts, and a DL network on the receiver side that will attempt to remove any compression artifacts introduced. We test each of these techniques at various compression ratios, examine deep learning’s image compression capabilities, and compare the pros and cons of both approaches.
